Hi welcome back on the last video we learn how to set a cookie for a user on this video.
I want to show you how to read the cookie and how to do things based on that information.
So let's go ahead and open our co-editor.
All right.
And last time we had this file here and we said the name for the cookie the value some expiration date
that we need to set.
We use a time function to do that in with this one which application we seconds here.
This is a week if you wanted to do more times in advance you multiply this week.
All right.
Because we already had the week here.
So you can multiply times.
Let's say you won.
You want this to be in four weeks in a month from now.
Then you multiply this week times four.
And that would be seven times 428.
Right.
Or I don't know 365.
OK.
So I mean whatever number you want if you want two weeks you put two if you want four weeks.
Then you put four.
OK.
So I just wanted to show you that because last time I didn't go into details about that but it was it's
really easy to do.
But anyway I'm got to leave it like this and we're going to send it to fruition for one week that's
fine.
Now let's go ahead down here and read the data and it's do something depending on that data.
So we set a cookie to check for.
I don't know whatever visit or Right now it just says name right.
So what we want to do is we want to get this value and I told you that when we get this value this value
saved automatically in a super global call called Cookie.
So we're got to use that to get this information out.
OK.
Remember that cookie.
This one this super global here is going to be an associate is going to have the information in a associative
array.
All right.
So what we want to do is we want to find out first if this cookie was set if the user came to our Web
site and we found a cookie.
That's the first thing that we do so we do a check and we do that with an if statement.
And we are going to be doing that with another function called is set this function is going to find
out if this super global set is available we will set.
So we're going to say on this score.
And then cookie.
Right.
Right there.
Now remember what we want to check is that we don't want to just check to see any cookies available.
We want to check for specific cookie when to check for value.
You know this is an associate of a race so we need to check that associate of a rate value.
So the value of this associative array is some name.
So what we need to do is check for this value here because this is the value that we're setting the
name for the cookie.
So we want to make sure we want to find out if this cookie name is set if dispersement cons back and
we see this value here wow why are we going to do with application right.
So we're going to put brackets here and in single quotes or double quotes.
It's up to you basically as a matter of Akuzawa causes are a little better I like and better we can
do more things with APHC But anyway so we checking if if we said if this Cookie's said called so name
it.
This person comes back.
What are we going to do.
Well first things.
This is the way you do that you need to grab this value out of it.
All right so let's let's say let's call this one.
All right.
And we are going to get is Valuator assigning a variable.
Why not.
Right.
So that's the first thing that we got to do.
So that way we can work with it a little better instead of using this whole thing when we can use this
book.
Why.
Why would we want to use that.
It's too long.
Right let's set it to a small variable and then we can play around with that value.
So so now if this is set right then come back and we're going to set we're going to set them the value
of soan one of the cookie name to someone right here.
OK.
So if if it's not set then just so our page doesn't keep looking for a variable.
Right.
We're going to set this variable to nothing because it might blow up on us.
We don't want this to be an error.
Right.
So let's find out.
Now we said this and it's just like we're on on the screen just so you could see it someone.
So if I go back to
cookies I should be able to see something.
Let's go because it's going to detect these us so we're going to do something.
Let's go.
There we go.
Hundred So he's explained the value here.
All right.
So he's getting the value of the cookie and explain it to us right here.
So if for some reason we have another value for that we're we would do something else.
But right now so we are checking for the value we find the person we find the cookie that we set in
the personal computer right.
And then we apply that value the name we took the name of that cookie.
Right.
We took the name and then we are echoing the value of it with the name right.
Because it's not going to echo the name of the cookie is going to equal the value of the cookie because
their value is what counts is the value is what we going to be using to do other things with our application.
Now this is a very straightforward application of cookie.
Boy you get the general idea here.
We are detecting a user and doing something with that data that we receive and what we do most of the
time is personalize the user.
And now personally the user experience.
Now keep in mind that you are limited to the cookies or you can set all right you can.
You can now only this is only one cookie we can set multiple cookies.
All right every time you come back to our site we can have a different cookie onto your browser and
then we can do things depending on that value.
But anyways I want to thank you for you know looking at this lecture and hopefully you were able to
get some valuable information from this and know that this is very powerful information that you can
apply to your applications as you become a programmer.
You're going to you're going to encounter this type of functionality is out there and you've got to
be able to work with him just with this example here if you practice and you can get better and better
you can make up allocations that are very user friendly.
I want to thank you again and I see you on the next lecture